Cover art copyright © 2011



Waldman Publishing Corp.



New York, New York



All rights reserved.



Text copyright © 2011



Waldman Publishing Corp.



New York, New York



BARONET BOOKS is a trademark of Waldman Publishing Corp., New York, New York.



No part of this book may be reproduced or copied in any form without written permission from the publisher.





About the Author



CHAPTER



1 A Strange Roommate



2 A Friend for Life



3 The Mysterious Captain Ahab



4 Setting Sail



5 “Death to Moby Dick!”



6 The Phantom Five



7 Men Overboard



8 A Victim of Moby Dick



9 The Mad Prophet of Doom



10 The Devil on Board?



11 Queequeg Does It Again!



12 On the Trail of the White Whale



13 Returned to Life



14 Strange Predictions



15 The First Day’s Chase



16 The Second Day’s Chase



17 The Strange Prediction Comes True



18 I Alone Survived



Complete List of Great Illustrated Classics Titles





About the Author



Herman Melville was born in 1819 in New York City, where his family owned a thriving importing business. His paternal grandfather was English, while his mother’s father was a Dutchman celebrated for fighting valiantly against the British during the Revolutionary War. The Melville’s good fortune took a turn for the worst when the business failed; soon after, when Melville was 12-years-old, his father died.



Although he had completed only a few months of high school, Melville went to work to support his mother and seven siblings. He educated himself by reading and later said that his Harvard and his Yale—the great schools of learning in America—were his whaling ships.



Melville tried his hand at many types of work, including farming, clerking and teaching. These and other pursuits paled in light of his thirst for the ever-inviting sea. He was only 18 years old when he signed on with a vessel going to and from Liverpool, England. A few years later, he sailed on a whaler from New Bedford, Massachusetts, to the Pacific.



After 18 months of serving under a cruel captain, Melville jumped ship at the Marquesas Islands in the Pacific. There, he was captured by cannibals, but he managed to escape on an Australian whaler and returned to the United States to join the Navy.



Melville turned to writing in the 1840s, and all of his thrilling and dangerous adventures found their way into the books and stories he wrote before his death in 1891. Some of his most popular books are Typee, Omoo, Billy Budd and Moby Dick.



Melville’s gift for bringing the seafaring life into the hearts and minds of readers has made him one of America’s most famous and beloved authors.





People You Will Meet in the Story



Ishmael, a young school teacher who goes to sea on a whaling ship and lives to tell the story



Captain Ahab, the fanatic one-legged commander of the Pequod who swears vengeance on a gigantic white whale that crippled him



Starbuck, the First Mate on the Pequod



Stubbs, the Second Mate on the Pequod



Flask, the Third Mate on the Pequod



Queequeg, a New Zealand harpooner and cannibal who befriends Ishmael



Tashtego, an American Indian harpooner on the Pequod



Daggoo, an African harpooner on the Pequod



Fedallah, a mysterious Philippine Indian who makes strange predictions



Moby Dick, the Great White Whale with almost human-like intelligence





CHAPTER 1



A Strange Roommate



Call me Ishmael. I am a schoolmaster, and whenever life got me down, I would leave my job and head for one special place. When my spirits needed restoring, I could always count on the sea.



I don’t mean I would travel as a passenger. No, for me the way to escape the closeness of my home town of Manhattan, New York, was to go to sea as a plain seaman. I liked the exercise; I liked getting paid instead of having to pay; and I liked satisfying my yen for seeing faraway places.



This time, I decided that instead of signing on with a merchant vessel, I’d go on a whaling ship that would sail from that original home of whaling, Nantucket, an island off the coast of Massachusetts. I had to go to New Bedford first. Then, I took a small boat to Nantucket.



I arrived in New Bedford on a bitter cold Saturday night in December, only to get some bad news. The last boat for Nantucket had just left, and there wouldn’t be another until Monday morning. I hadn’t counted on the extra expense of staying in New Bedford for two nights, but I had no choice. So, I began to look for an affordable inn.





Since the ones I passed seemed too cheerful and attractive for my pocket, I kept walking in the icy wind. Finally, near the dock, I came to a rundown gabled house. Its sign creaked as it swung over the ramshackle door. Under a picture of a jet spray appeared the name of the establishment, The Spouter Inn, and under that was the name “Peter Coffin.”



“Not very appealing,” I thought, “but better than being outdoors this frosty night.”



The first thing I saw as I entered the inn was a dismal picture of a sinking ship and a whale. One wall was hung with all kinds of frightening weapons—clubs, spears, whaling lances and rusty harpoons. The entrance to the bar was formed by the arch of a whale’s open mouth, and the wrinkled bartender seemed to be mixing drinks inside the whale’s fierce jaws.





The landlord said that he was full up, but that if I wanted to stay, I could share a bed with a harpooner. I didn’t like the idea, but I knew that sharing rooms was a common practice in small-town inns. I told the landlord that if I had no choice, I might put up with half of a decent man’s blanket.



All through supper I watched for the harpooner to arrive, but he did not appear. I dreaded the thought of sleeping in a strange bed in a strange town with a total stranger, particularly a rough harpooner. I kept a worried eye on the door until midnight, but there was still no sign of him. Finally, my patience wore out.



“Landlord,” I asked, “where is he? What sort of man is he to keep such late hours?”



“Generally, he’s the early bird what catches the worm,” explained the landlord. “But tonight he’s out a-peddlin. Must be havin’ trouble sellin’ his head.”



“His what?” I shouted.





“Be easy,” said the landlord. “This harpooner has just arrived from the South Seas with a cargo of embalmed shrunken heads from New Zealand. They make great curios, you know. He’s sold ’em all but one. I told him it wouldn’t do to be sellin’ human heads about the streets tomorrow, when folks is goin’ to church.”



“He sounds like a dangerous man,” I cried.



“He pays regular,” said the landlord, lighting a candle. “And that’s all that concerns me. Now come along and I’ll take you to your room.”



A crazy old sea-chest stood in the small cold room, and in the center was a bed big enough for four harpooners. There was no other furniture but a rough shelf and an old wooden chair. A seaman’s bag sat on the floor, and a tall harpoon stood beside the bed.



I was restless for a while after the landlord left. At last, I slid off into a light doze.



Suddenly, a heavy footstep in the passageway awakened me, and a gleam of light brightened the room.



“Lord save me!” I thought. “It must be the head-peddler.”





I lay perfectly still, watching a shadowy figure cram a horrible New Zealand head into the sea-bag. He flipped his heavy sea-coat on the chair, reached into the bag, and took out what looked like a tomahawk. I couldn’t see the man’s face for a while, but when I did, I froze.





His face was of a dark-purplish color, stuck all over with large blackish-looking squares. When he pulled off his hat, I came close to crying out in surprise. There was no hair on his head, only a small twisted scalp-knot, a hank of long hair that had been left in the center when the rest was shaved off. His bald purplish head looked for all like a mildewed skull.



Had the stranger not stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of the room in a frightened rush. But I just lay there waiting, silently examining the rest of him.



His chest, arms and back were checkered like his face, and his legs were so covered with tattoos, they resembled a parade of dark green frogs running up the trunks of young palm trees.



The stranger reached over to where he had thrown his heavy sea-coat, and from the pocket he took an odd collection of items: a little hunchbacked figure—a worshipping idol, I supposed—a handful of wood shavings, a candle and a bit of ship’s biscuit. These he set on the fireplace. Then, he lit a kind of sacrificial flame, burned the biscuit and seemed to make a polite offering of it to the little figure. His face twitched in an unnatural manner, and he made strange noises in his throat.





CHAPTER 2



A Friend for Life



Finally, the stranger put out the little fire and stuffed the tiny idol back in his coat pocket. I was thinking of speaking to him, but before I could, he popped the tomahawk-shaped object between his teeth, brought a match up to it and puffed out a huge cloud of tobacco smoke. Then, he jumped into bed.



When I called out, he grunted in surprise. I stammered and rolled toward the wall.



He began to shout and wave the tomahawk-pipe, spreading hot ashes all around us. I was terrified he would cut me or set the bed on fire.



“Whoee debil you?” he yelled. “Speakee, or damme, I kill’ee!”



I shouted for the landlord, who, thank Heaven, arrived quickly with a light in his hand.





“Don’t be afraid,” he said, grinning at us from the open door. “Queequeg wouldn’t harm a hair on your head.”



“Why didn’t you tell me the harpooner was a cannibal?” I roared.



“I thought ye knowed. Didn’t I tell ye he was out peddlin’ heads?” He turned to Queequeg and said, “Look here. This man sleepee you. You sabbee?”



“Me sabbee,” Queequeg grunted while puffing on his pipe. He politely turned the blanket back and motioned for me to get into bed.



I took a good look at him and realized that under all that paint he was really a good, sober man. He probably had as much reason to be afraid of me as I had to fear him.



“Okay, landlord,” I said, “but tell him to put the tomahawk away and stop smoking in bed.”



Queequeg readily agreed and gently rolled over to the far side of the bed, as if to say, “You’ve nothing to fear from me.”



“Good night, landlord,” I said. “You may go.”



The next morning, Queequeg courteously signaled that he would dress first and let me have the room to myself. My roommate was polite, while I was the rude one. I couldn’t help staring as he put on his tall beaver hat first before crawling under the bed to put on his boots in privacy. After this, he crawled out to put on his pants and shirt.





Next, he took a wet piece of soap and began to lather his face. I wondered what kind of razor he had and soon found out, much to my surprise. He slipped the harpoon head off its long pole, sharpened it on his boot and vigorously scraped away at his cheeks. I found this amazing at the time, but I would not find this so amazing later on, when I learned how sharp these fine steel harpoon-heads are kept.



At breakfast, I was expecting to hear exciting sea stories from the experienced whalers, but they were silent, bashful bears. Queequeg kept himself busy. He had brought his harpoon along and, ignoring the hot rolls and coffee, reached the harpoon across the breakfast table to spear one beefsteak after another, choosing the rarest among them.





Later, I found myself alone in the public room with him. I watched as he picked up a heavy book from the table and slowly counted the pages in his strange language. After every fifty pages, he stopped and whistled in astonishment.



I wondered to myself why he wasn’t friendly with the other seamen at the inn. But on second thought, I liked him for it. Here was a man twenty-thousand miles from his home in New Zealand, in a place as foreign to him as if he had landed on the planet Jupiter. Yet, he managed to keep himself at ease, content with his own companionship.



I felt myself drawn to him. So, I pulled up my bench and tried my best to talk to him. He asked me if we would be sharing a room again that night. When I told him that we would be, he looked pleased, as if I had complimented him by not arranging for a change.





I tried to explain a few details about the book he was holding; what printing was and what the pictures in it meant. When I suggested that we smoke, he produced his tobacco pouch and tomahawk-pipe. We passed the pipe back and forth a few times.



When we had finished our smoke, he pressed his forehead against mine, clasped me around the waist, and said that we were “married” In his country’s language, this meant that we were now best friends and he would die for me if necessary. Here in America, of course, we don’t trust people so quickly. Close friendships don’t form so quickly. But I felt that in the case of this innocent savage, the rules that I had grown up with did not apply.



After supper and another friendly smoke, we returned to our room. He made me a present of his embalmed head. Then, he took his tobacco pouch and, groping under the tobacco, took out some thirty dollars in silver. He divided the money into two parts and insisted that half was mine. I tried to refuse, but he picked up my share and forced it into my pocket.





Next, he took out the little hunchbacked figure he had used in his ritual the previous night and made signs that he wanted me to join him in his ceremony. This posed a problem for me. As a good Christian, I knew that I should not worship idols. But then I got to thinking: Could my great God, mighty ruler of all heaven and earth, be jealous of a little piece of wood? And doesn’t God really want us to do for our fellow men what we want them to do for us? So I lit the fire, offered the figure some burnt biscuit and bowed once or twice.



Having done my duty to my new friend and satisfied my conscience, I went to sleep.





We woke early the next morning. Queequeg seemed eager to tell me about himself.



“Queequeg born on Kokovoko—smallee island in South Pacific,” he explained. “Queequeg father King and uncle High Priest of island. Queequeg be King when old father dies. But Queequeg see Christian world first and bring back great improvements to his people.



“When whaling ship land on Kokovoko, Queequeg beggee captain take him aboard. Captain say no, but Queequeg not give up. Paddle his canoe to narrow strait ship must enter, sink canoe, climb up side of ship and throw himself on deck. Again captain say no. But when he see chief’s son ready to die, he let Queequeg stay on board. Queequeg learnee whaling.”



“Do you plan to go back soon and take over your throne?” I asked.



“Queequeg watchee how sailors behave and learnee that even Christians be wicked,” he said. “Now Queequeg feel he not fit to carry on line of thirty pure kings before him. At least not tillee some day, when Queequeg feel clean once more.”



“What will you do now?” I asked.



“Queequeg sail again,” he said firmly.



“I plan to sign on a whaling ship out of Nantucket,” I told him.



“Den Queequeg go with friend and signee on same ship,” he insisted.



I was glad that he wanted to go with me. Queequeg was my friend, and he was an experienced harpooner. As such, he would be a good teacher for me on my first whaling voyage.





CHAPTER 3



The Mysterious Captain Ahab



The next morning, Queequeg and I borrowed a wheelbarrow and brought our belongings to the dock. He told me that the first time he had seen a wheelbarrow, he didn’t know what to do with it. He fastened his sea-chest to it and carried the whole thing on his shoulders.



“Didn’t people laugh at you?” I asked.



“All peoples laughee at different ways,” he replied. “I tellee you another story. Sea captain, he visiting Kokovoko Island. He be tellee come along wedding Queequeg sister. High Priest, he take big bowl and dippee fingers in for bless coconut juice before wedding. Giveee to guests. Captain not sabbee. Him washee hands in juice. What you tink now? Tink Queequeg people not laugh?”



“Yes, Queequeg,” I said. “I suppose they did.”



By now, we had reached the Moss, a small ship sailing from New Bedford to Nantucket, and we went on board. Some of the passengers made fun of Queequeg. One of them went too far. Dropping his harpoon, Queequeg lifted the rude man and threw him in the air. As the man was coming down, Queequeg gently tapped his back in the middle of his somersault, and the fellow landed on his feet. Queequeg turned his back to the man and lit his tomahawk-pipe.





The man complained to the captain, who came running.



“What in thunder do you think you are doing? You might have killed the chap!” shouted the captain.



“What him say?” Queequeg calmly asked me.



“The captain said that you nearly killed him,” I said, pointing to the shivering man.



Queequeg’s face took on a look of contempt.



“Killee him?” he said. “Him smallee fish. Queequeg no killee smallee fish. Queequeg killee big whale!”



“I’ll killee you, cannibal,” roared the captain, “if you threaten any more of my passengers. You better watch your step.”



As it turned out, the captain’s attention was drawn away from Queequeg. Something had gone wrong in raising the mainsail. The boom—a long low pole that keeps the sail stretched out—was now swinging from side to side, making huge sweeps of the deck. On one sweep, it brushed the rude man overboard. It continued to swing back and forth, until it looked as if it would go on until it snapped. No one knew what to do. Everyone, including the captain, stood frozen in place, waiting for the worst to occur.





That is, everyone except for Queequeg. He dropped to his knees and crawled under the path of the boom to a rope. He tied one end of it to the bulwarks, or sides of the upper deck. He flung the other end of the rope like a lasso, caught the boom as it went over his head and steadied it.



Next, he stripped off his shirt and made a perfect dive into the freezing, foamy water. We couldn’t see anyone but Queequeg swimming through the waves. Suddenly, he disappeared underwater. When he surfaced a few moments later, we saw him navigate through the water with one arm and drag a limp form with the other.





Thus, the rude man was saved, the captain apologized to Queequeg and I made up my mind never to leave my best friend’s side.



I had to part from him for a short while though, once the Moss reached Nantucket. Back in our room in New Bedford, Queequeg had insisted that the little idol that he carried—Yojo was its name—had given him a message that I, alone, was to pick out the whaling ship that would carry us across the seas.



After scouting the ships that were ready for a three-year whaling trip, I chose a small, old-fashioned vessel named the Pequod. I told a suntanned, wrinkled gentleman who I met on board that I wanted to sign on. He introduced himself as Captain Peleg, one of the two owners of the ship.



“What takes thee a-whaling?” asked Captain Peleg. “I want to know your reasons before I think of shipping ye.”





“Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is about,” I explained.



“Have ye ever clapped an eye on Captain Ahab?” he asked.



“Who’s Captain Ahab, sir?” I asked in return.



“He’s the captain of this ship,” he announced. “Why don’t ye take a good look at him before ye tie yourself up in whaling? Ye’ll find him when ye see a man with only one leg.”



“Did he lose the other leg while whaling?” I asked.



“Did he lose it while whaling, ye ask? Young man, it was crunched off by the biggest sea monster that ever chipped a boat!” Captain Peleg cried.





The old captain’s story didn’t make me change my mind, and I finally convinced him I was determined to sign on. When I told him about Queequeg, he said to bring my companion along. Just as I was about to leave, I remembered I hadn’t met the ship’s captain.



“Where can I find Captain Ahab?” I asked.



“Why do ye want to see him?” Captain Peleg asked gruffly. “It’s enough that you’re shipped.”



“I still would like to see him,” I declared.



“Well, don’t count on it,” said Captain Peleg. “He’s sick....no, he isn’t sick, but he’s not well, either. He won’t always see me, so I don’t think he’ll see the likes of you. He’s got his moods but he is a good man. He was named after a king in the Bible, ye know.”



“Wasn’t the biblical Ahab a wicked king who was killed?” I asked.



“Don’t ever say that on board the Pequod!” he roared. “Ahab didn’t choose his name. I know Captain Ahab. He may have lost his grip on his last trip home, but the pain in his leg stump is the reason. He’s got a young wife and a son. Don’t judge him by his wicked name.”



I left Captain Peleg there but continued to puzzle over his curious comments about the mysterious Captain Ahab.





CHAPTER 4



Setting Sail



As we boarded the Pequod, Captain Peleg stopped us.



“Ye hadn’t told me Queequeg was a cannibal,” he said in a shocked tone of voice. “We don’t allow any pagans unless they’re converted. Do ye have Queequeg’s papers to show that he is a Christian?”



“He’s a member of the First Congregational Church,” I said.



“Ye mean the one run by Deacon Coleman?” the captain asked. “I pass it every Sunday and never once saw this pagan there. Are ye trying to put one over on me?”



“Listen,” I said, “he’s a born member and a deacon himself.”



“Come on, now,” said the captain. “What church are ye talking about?”



“The great First Congregational Church of the World. It is the place where you and I and every mother’s son worships. Every human being belongs to this church. We may have a few small differences, but in the one grand belief in God, we join hands.”



“I never heard a better sermon,” said Peleg. “Maybe ye ought to ship as a missionary. But tell me, has your friend Quohog ever stuck a fish?”



Queequeg understood the question and took it as a test. He jumped onto the bulwarks and, from there, onto the bow of one of the hanging boats. Raising his harpoon, he called out, “Cap’n, you see him smallee drop tar on water dere? Well, s’poseee him one whale eye. Well, den!”





Taking sharp aim, Queequeg darted the harpoon and struck the shiny tar spot out of sight.



“Now,” said Queequeg matter-of-factly as he hauled in the line, “s’poseee him whale eye. Dat whale dead.”



It didn’t take Peleg long to sign him on. Instead of writing his name, Queequeg copied a sign he had tattooed on his arm.



We had just left the Pequod and were ambling along the street when we were stopped by a stranger. He was shabbily dressed and had a badly pock-marked face.





“Shipmates, have ye signed on that ship?” he asked, his finger pointing to the Pequod like a fixed bayonet.



“Yes,” I said. “We have just signed the papers.”



“Anything in those papers about your souls?” the man continued.



“Why would they mention our souls?” I asked in amazement.



“Well, maybe ye haven’t got any,” said the stranger. “But he’s got enough to make up for the lack in other chaps, Old Thunder does.”



“Who’s Old Thunder?” I asked.



“Captain Ahab, of course,” the man replied. “What do ye know about him?”



Although the bedraggled stranger appeared to be unstable, I answered: “He knows his whaling and he’s a good captain.”





“Both of your statements are true,” he agreed, “but what about his other….well, never mind. Your names are on the papers already. Some sailors must go with him, I guess. God pity ’em. Good morning to you, then, and the heavens bless ye.”



“You can’t fool us,” I said. “It’s easy to look like you have a secret.”



“Mornin’ to ye,” he said again as he turned to go.



“Come on, Queequeg. Let’s leave this crazy man. But tell us your name, will you, stranger?” I asked the departing figure.



“Elijah,” he answered.



Queequeg and I walked away, agreeing that the ragged old sailor was a phony. But the name Elijah made me think. The Elijah in the Bible had been a prophet who had warned of bad things to come.



We waited a few days while the Pequod was loaded with the supplies needed for a three-year voyage. I kept asking for Captain Ahab, but always got the same answer, that he was better and would be coming on board soon. When we received word that we would be setting sail, I still hadn’t met him. I felt uneasy about spending three years serving a captain I had never seen.



It was about six o’clock in the morning when Queequeg and I arrived at the wharf. I thought that I saw some sailors running in front of us, but I couldn’t be sure with the heavy morning mist.





“Stop!” called a voice, and we each felt a hand on our shoulder . It was Elijah.



“Ye ain’t goin’ aboard?” he asked.



“We are, and it’s no concern of yours,” I answered.



“Did ye see some men goin’ toward the ship just now?” he asked.



“Yes, but it was too dim to make out who they were,” I said.



“Very dim, very dim,” he chanted. “Well, see if ye can find ’em now. Mornin’ to yeo. Shan’t see ye again, I guess.”



With those final cracked words, he left.



At last, the Pequod hoisted anchor and set sail under Captain Peleg. When we were out of the bay and on the ocean, a small sailboat came to take him back to the shore. Queequeg and I still hadn’t set eyes on Captain Ahab, but we got to know the other members of the crew.





Starbuck, the chief mate, was a thin, steady man who seemed to be brave, but in a practical way. Having lost his father and his brother at sea, Starbuck was not a man to take foolish risks.



The second mate was Stubb, an easygoing, fearless man and a chain smoker. You’d as soon expect to see his face without his nose, as to see it without his little black pipe.



Flask was the third mate. A short, stubby sailor, he seemed to be out hunting whales just for the fun of it. The long voyage around Cape Horn at the southern tip of South America was a jolly joke to him.



Each of the three mates commanded one of the Pequod’s small whaling boats, and each had his own harpooner. Chief Mate Starbuck had chosen Queequeg; Tashtego, a Massachusetts Indian, worked with Second Mate Stubb; and Daggoo, a gigantic African, was Flask’s harpooner.





With the three mates taking turns at commanding the ship, nothing was seen of Captain Ahab. Then, a few days after we had left Nantucket, I went on deck at the call of the afternoon watch and got my first view of the man.



Standing there so grimly, Captain Ahab reminded me of a bronze statue, tall and broad. A thin white scar threaded its way out from his gray hair and continued down his face and neck until it disappeared inside his collar. The scar looked like the line that runs through a huge tree that has been struck by lightning but is still alive, branded by its brush with nature. One of his legs was made of ivory, taken from the smooth bone of a whale’s jaw.



How could he stand so firmly on that ivory leg with the ship rocking as it was, I wondered? Here is the explanation: A half-inch hole had been drilled on each side of the officers’ quarterdeck. His bone leg fit in the hole, keeping him erect as he stared silently beyond the ship’s ever-pitching prow. The faraway look in his eyes was unsettling.



Despite the mystery surrounding him, it was clear to me that Captain Ahab was troubled by some mighty woe.





CHAPTER 5



“Death to Moby Dick!”



As our ship moved southward and the weather grew warm, Captain Ahab came on deck more often, either to stand with his leg anchored in the hole or to sit on a stool fixed in the same way. Often, he would pace the deck unsteadily. Sometimes, the restless pounding of his leg upon the wooden deck at night would keep us awake.



When Stubb half-jokingly asked him to cover the ivory the next night he felt like pacing the deck, Ahab turned on the mate.



“Down, dog, and to thy kennel!” he shouted.



For a moment, Stubb was speechless.



“I am not used to being spoken to in that way, sir. I do not like it, sir,” he said.



“Then be called ten times a donkey and be gone, or I’ll clear the world of thee!” Ahab shouted and advanced toward him threateningly.



Stubb retreated, muttering to the men as he walked by, “I don’t know whether to strike him or pray for him. Is he mad? What troubles him that he cannot sleep for more than three hours a night? And even then he doesn’t sleep. The steward says his bed’s always rumpled and his pillow’s hot as a baked brick. He’s full of riddles, that one.”





One morning after breakfast, we heard Ahab’s steady step as usual. But the dents made by his ivory leg on the deck looked deeper than usual, as if his nervous steps that morning left deeper marks. His forehead, too, was lined, as if one constant thought had kept him always awake.



All day long, he paced the deck. Suddenly, near the close of day, he stopped by the bulwarks and commanded Starbuck to send everyone aft. The mate was surprised at his strange order for the crew to gather at the rear of the ship.



Ahab continued to pace, unmindful of our curious whispering. Finally, he cried out, “What do ye do when ye see a whale, men?”



“Sing out for him!” the men called out.



“Good! And what do ye do next, men?” the captain asked.



“Lower away and go after him!” they cried.



“And what tune do ye row to, men?” he continued.



Again, the men gave him the answer that he sought.



Ahab’s face grew happier and more approving with every shout. He took out a bright coin and called for a hammer.





“Look, yeo. D’ye see this Spanish ounce of gold?” he tempted them. “Whosoever of ye sights a white-headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw; whosoever of ye sights that white-headed whale with three holes punctured in his starboard fluke; whosoever of ye sights that same white whale, he shall have this gold ounce, my boys!”



“Hurrah, hurrah!” the seamen shouted as Ahab nailed the gold coin to the mast with the hammer.





“It’s a white whale, I say,” continued Ahab. “Look sharp for white water. If ye see but a bubble, sing out.”



All this time, Tashtego, Daggo, and Queequeg had been looking on with more interest and more surprise than the rest of the crew. At the mention of the wrinkled brow and crooked jaw of the whale, they had started as if each were visited by a disturbing memory.



“Captain Ahab,” said Tashtego, “that white whale must be the one called Moby Dick.”



“Aye, it is,” the captain agreed. “Do ye know the white whale then, Tash?”



“Does he move his tail from side to side before he goes down?” asked Tashtego.



“And has he an odd spout and is he mighty quick, Captain Ahab?” asked Daggoo.



“And he have two, three iron in him hide, too, Captain,” cried Queequeg. “All twisketee, like so.”



To demonstrate, Queequeg circled his hand around and around.



“Corkscrew!” cried Ahab.



The captain paused for a breath. He seemed to labor to get out his words.



“Aye, Queequeg,” he continued, “the harpoons lie twisted in him. Aye, Daggoo, his spout is a big one. Aye, Tashtego, and he moves his tail from side to side. He fan-tails before going down into the sea. Death and devils! Men, it is Moby Dick ye have seen.



After another pause, he began to chant, “Moby Dick, Moby Dick!”



“Captain Ahab,” asked Starbuck, “was it not Moby Dick that took off thy leg?”





“Aye, it was that cursed White Whale who gave me this dead stump that I stand on now. I’ll chase him around the Cape of Good Hope and around Cape Horn and around the flames of Hell before I give up,” Ahab swore. “This is what ye have shipped for, men, to chase that White Whale to every corner of the earth until he spouts black blood and rolls over! What say ye, men? Are ye brave enough to join hands in it now?”



“Aye, aye!” shouted the harpooners and seamen.



“God bless ye, men,” Ahab half-sobbed, half-shouted. “Steward, go draw some rum for the men.”



Then, seeing Starbuck standing silently, Ahab asked him, “Why do ye look so glum, Starbuck? Won’t ye chase Moby Dick?”



“I am game for his crooked jaw and for the jaws of Death, too, if it comes from the whaling business we follow. But I came here to hunt whales, not for my captain’s revenge!” the mate replied.



Starbuck, alone, opposed the captain, but of course he would not rebel.



“God save me. God save us all,” he murmured softly.





Ahab ordered a big pewter drinking mug filled with rum.



“Drink and pass!” he cried, handing the mug to the nearest seaman. “Long swallows, men. ’Tis hot as Satan’s hoof. Well done, almost drained. Steward, refill!”



Next, he called for the three mates to come forth.



“Cross your lances that I may revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers,” he said, gripping the three irons at their crossed center.



He gazed deeply from Starbuck to Stubb and from Stubb to Flask, as if to ignite them with his own fiery enthusiasm. The mates looked away from his strong, mystic stare.



“Down with your lances,” he ordered.



Then, Ahab turned to Queequeg, Tashtego and Daggoo.



“Detach the poles from your weapons, men,” he directed his valiant harpooners.



Queequeg, Tashtego and Daggoo slipped off the iron tips of their harpoons and turned them upside down, with the hollow openings facing up.



Filling them like goblets, Ahab ordered, “Drink, ye harpooners. Drink and swear: Death to Moby Dick! God hunt us down if we do not bring Moby Dick to his death!”





CHAPTER 6



The Phantom Five



In the days that followed, I began to pick up all sorts of information about whales in general and about Moby Dick, in particular. For example, the most prized of all whales is the sperm whale because of its valuable spermaceti, a white, wax-like substance taken from the oil in the sperm whale’s head. Spermaceti lights the lamps of the world and is an important ingredient in making perfume.



As for Moby Dick, I learned he could be spotted from a great distance because he differed from most other sperm whales. Not only did he have a peculiar snow-white wrinkled forehead and a high white hump, but the rest of his huge body was so streaked and spotted with the same white color, that he gained the nickname of “The White Whale.”



Moby Dick was known to swim frantically away from a boat lowered by a whaling ship to chase him. Yet, he only pretended to be frightened. Suddenly, he would turn around and bear down on his pursuers, either breaking their boat to splinters or driving them back in terror to their ship.



Once, a captain went at Moby Dick with three boats. All three were shattered by the whale. Seeing his men spinning about in little whirlpools of the sea, the captain grabbed a small knife with a six-inch blade and dashed at Moby Dick’s heart like some wild man in a duel. That captain was Ahab. It was at that moment that the whale swept his curved lower jaw beneath Ahab and cut off the captain’s leg!





Ever since then, Ahab wanted revenge against the whale, for to Ahab all of the evil of the world was rolled into this one creature. I marveled that he had managed to make his men share his hatred and even take on his enemy as their own.



One still moonlit night, we were standing in line passing buckets to fill the scuttle butt, which is a barrel that holds fresh water for the day’s use. While we were working, one of the seamen whispered to another, “Hsst! Did you hear that noise?”





“What noise?” the other man asked.”



There it is again, under the hatches. It sounded like a cough,” the first said.



“Be still, shipmate, will ye? It’s the three soaked biscuits ye ate for supper turning over inside ye, nothing more,” his companion complained. “Now, hand over the bucket.”



“Ye can grin all you like,” said the seaman. “We’ll see what turns up. There’s somebody below that has not been seen on deck. I suspect that old Ahab knows something about it, too. I heard Stubb tell Flask one morning that there was something of the sort in the wind.”



Nothing came of this mystery until Tashtego, who was keeping a watch on the mainmast, sang out, “There she blows!”



I looked up to see where the Indian had sighted a whale. Tashtego stood perched high in the air, his arm stretched out like a wand.



“There she blows! There! There! There!” Tashtego pierced the air with his finger as if he wielded a sword.





“Where? Where?” came excited shouts.



“On the lee-beam, about two miles off! A school of them!” he described.



That meant they were on the side of the ship away from the wind. The crew scattered and calm became chaos.



“Quick, steward!” cried Ahab. “Get me the time, the time! “



Dough-Boy, the steward, hurried below, glanced at the watch and reported the time to the exact minute to Ahab.



We knew that Ahab kept careful notes of where and when whales had been sighted or captured. Every night he would take from his locker a large wrinkled roll of sea-charts and study the various lines and shadings, tracing routes with his slow but steady pencil. He studied the currents of all four oceans and the habits of all types of whales in order to find and kill Moby Dick.





Although we hunted other whales which, after all, was the main business of the Pequod, I knew that Ahab’s real prey was ever on his mind.



The ship was now kept away from the wind. Three boats were swung over the side and down to the sea. We heard a sudden cry that drew every eye from the whales and directed attention to Ahab. The captain stood on deck surrounded by five dark phantoms that seemed to have appeared out of the air.



The strangers noiselessly lowered one of the spare boats.



“All ready there, Fedallah?” called Ahab.



“Ready,” was the half-hissed reply from a tall, dark figure with one tooth protruding from his steel-like lips. The man wore a rumpled black cotton jacket and pants, and his long white hair was braided and coiled around his head like a turban. The other men had the tiger-yellow color of the Manillas, a tribe of natives from the Phillipine Islands near Australia. Some superstitious sailors believed these natives to be secret spies of the devil.



“Lower away, then!” shouted Captain Ahab.





Like goats, our men leaped down the rolling ship’s side to board the three tossed boats below. In the fourth boat, which was rowed by the five strangers, stood Ahab. He was yelling across the water at Starbuck, Stubb and Flask to spread out so as to cover a larger area.



When, for a minute or so, their boats came close, Stubb called to Starbuck, “What think you of those five yellow men, sir?”



“They were smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed,” called Starbuck. “Pull strong, boys! It’s a sad business, Mr. Stubb. But never mind, it’s all for the best!”



“I thought so, too,” Stubb concurred. “That’s why he kept going down into the hold so much. The men were hidden there. The White Whale’s at the bottom of it, I say. Well, it can’t be helped now. Give way, men! It ain’t the White Whale today!”



Silently, I recalled the mysterious shadows that I had seen creeping on board the Pequod during the dim Nantucket dawn. I remembered, too, the puzzling hints of that strange man, Elijah. Later, when the current crisis had passed, I would have a lot to think about but at the moment, everyone’s focus was on the whales.





CHAPTER 7



Men Overboard



Ahab’s tiger-yellow men seemed to be made of steel and whalebone. Like five strong trip hammers, they rose and fell with hard, regular strokes of their oars. Fedallah, at one end of the boat, pulled the harpooner’s oar, while at the other end Ahab steadily managed the steering oar.



“Flask!” called Ahab across to the other boat. “Pull out more to leeward, man.”



“Aye, aye, sir,” Flask said as he swept his great oar around. “Lay back, men!”



Ahab shouted, “There she blows right ahead, boys! Roar and pull, my thunderbolts!”



Meanwhile, in one of the other boats, Stubb was directing his crew to row, but in a far different and rather amusing way. He said the most outrageous things to them, but in a tone that was half-angry and half-joking.



“Pull, pull, my little ones!” shouted Stubb. “Why don’t you break your backbones, boys? Pay no mind to the five in yonder boat. The more the merrier! Even if they are devils, they are good fellows. Hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil. The devil fetch ye ragamuffins, ye’re all asleep. Wake up and pull! Every mother’s son of ye, draw his knife and pull with the blade between his teeth. That’s more like it now!”



In another boat, Starbuck’s way was different. He commanded with a low, intense whisper, “Pull, pull, my good boys.” He never said much to his crew, nor they anything at all to him.





It was a sight full of wonder that inspired awe: the roaring waves of the sea; the boats rolling to the top of a watery hill and then sliding sled-like down its other side; the windstorm tossing them about amid the cries of the harpooners and the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen. The Pequod bore down on her boats with outstretched sails, like a wild mother hen chasing her screaming brood. It was harrowing and thrilling!



Starbuck chased three whales as our boat rushed along in the rising wind and mist. Without warning, he hurled a lightning-bolt whisper to Queequeg.



“Stand up!” Starbuck hissed.





Our harpooner sprang to his feet and waited until he heard Starbuck say, “That’s his hump. There, there! Give it to him!”



Queequeg’s darting iron made a rushing sound and unleashed a state of mass confusion. An invisible push came at us from the stern, or rear, of our little boat. The sails collapsed, and something rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us, tossing all of us helter-skelter into the white curdling foam of the sea. The windstorm, the whale and the harpoon blended, and the whale, merely grazed by the iron, escaped.



As we swam through the waters, we managed to pick up our floating oars, climb back into the lonely boat and tumble to our places. It was no use calling to the other boats. We could not be heard in the storm. We were up to our knees in water, and in the deepening mist the Pequod was nowhere to be seen. As dawn came on, we sat there drenched through and through, shivering in the cold, and without hope.



It was Queequeg who first jumped to his feet, cupping his hand to his ear. As we listened, we heard a faint creaking. Then, before we knew what was happening, the Pequod emerged from the mist, bearing right down on us!





We jumped into the sea just moments before our boat was crushed beneath the Pequod’s hull. We swam for our lives with the sea dashing us against the ship until we were safely taken on board. We learned from out shipmates that the three other boats had gotten back in time.



“Queequeg,” I said, still shaking myself to fling off the water, “my fine friend, does this sort of thing happen often?”



In his typically calm fashion, Queequeg told me, yes, it did. Stubb and Flask, who were with us, concurred.



Considering that the three men thought nothing of having been overturned; and considering that they saw nothing unusual in cautious Mr. Starbuck’s driving us onto his whale in the teeth of a squall; and considering, too, our captain’s mad quest for the White Whale, there was only one sensible thing for me to do.



“Queequeg,” I said, “I am going below to make a rough draft of my will. Come along. You shall be my lawyer and advisor.”





CHAPTER 8



A Victim of Moby Dick



Southeastward from the Cape of Good Hope—a name that seemed wrong for that place of tormented seas, howling winds and leaping waves—we met the Albatross, a ship that had been long absent from home, judging from her rusty sides and the long beards of her tatter-dressed sailors.



“Ship ahoy!” Ahab called to the captain of the Albatross. “Have ye seen the White Whale?”



As the captain of the Albatross put the trumpet to his mouth to answer, it fell out of his hand into the sea, and he could not make himself heard. So we passed on.



Not long after, we met another homeward-bound whaler, the Town-Ho. This time, Ahab allowed a gam, or exchange of visits. Some of the Town-Ho crewmen who came on board the Pequod whispered the secret of their ship to Tashtego. When he later told it to us, it sparked our interest in Moby Dick.



An officer and a sailor on the Town-Ho had gotten into a fight over an unfair order to sweep the deck. In self-defense, the sailor knocked down the mate. Others got involved, and the fight grew into a mutiny.



Steelkilt, the seaman, was about to kill Radney, the chief mate, when a call came. Moby Dick had been sighted. Radney’s boat was the first one lowered, and as he stood spear in hand, he was washed overboard. Moby Dick clamped him between his jaws, reared high and plunged down into the water.





When the whale rose again, he had some tatters of Radney’s red wool shirt caught in his teeth. The crew pursued the whale, but Moby Dick had disappeared.



After hearing the Town-Ho’s story, everyone had Moby Dick in mind. Daggoo, who had the lookout, saw a great white mass that kept rising and sinking.



“There she breaches, right ahead!” he called. “The White Whale, the White Whale!”



Ahab called for the boats to be lowered. His boat was down ahead of the other three. I watched with interest as a vast, pulpy, cream-colored mass hundreds of yards long and wide came floating toward us on the water. Countless numbers of long arms radiated from its center, curling and twisting like a nest of snakes. The creature had no visible face or front; it was ghostly, shapeless and alive





As it disappeared again, making a low sucking sound, Starbuck said, “I would almost rather have seen and fought Moby Dick than that white ghost.”



“What was it, sir?” said Flask.



“The great live squid,” he answered. “There’s a superstition that few whale-ships that see the squid ever return to their ports to tell of it. “



Ahab said nothing. He turned his boat and sailed back to the ship. The rest of us silently followed in his wake.



Queequeg had a different opinion about what seeing the squid meant.



“When you see the ’quid close by, you see quick ’perm whale,” he declared.



The next day was hot, and we were drowsy. Just as Queequeg had predicated, all at once we spotted a huge sperm whale lazily swimming along and spouting his jet, like some fat citizen leisurely smoking his pipe on a warm afternoon.





That pipe was the poor whale’s last. As if struck by a magician, the sleepy men got busy lowering the boats. Our noise must have alarmed the whale, for he threw his tail forty feet into the air and sank out of sight, like a swallowed-up tower.



Being nearer than any of the others to where the whale again appeared, Stubb counted on having the honor of capturing it.



“Start her like thunderclaps, my men,” he ordered. “But keep cool. Cucumber’s the word. Start her, Tash, my boy.”



“Woohoo! Wahee!” screamed the Indian in reply, raising an old war whoop to the skies.





His wild screams were answered by others just as wild from the other boats.



“Keehee! Keehee!” yelled Daggoo, straining back and forth in his seat like a tiger pacing in his cage.



“Kala! Kooloo!” howled Queequeg.



The men in Stubb’s boat tugged and strained until the welcome cry was heard.



“Stand, Tashtego! Give it to him!” rang out.



The harpoon was hurled. The boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark that is all fins. She seemed to pass whole Atlantics and Pacifies as she shot on her way until, finally, the whale slowed his frantic flight and the boat’s as well.



“Haul in! Haul in!” cried Stubb.



The men faced toward the whale and began pulling the boat up to him, while he still towed the boat. Stubb sent dart after dart into the whale’s body. A red tide poured from every side of the monster. The sun, playing upon the bloody water, sent back its reflection into every man’s face, so that they glowed to each other like red men.



“Pull up!” Stubb cried, and the boat moved along the whale’s side. Reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned his long sharp lance into the heart of the whale and kept it there, carefully churning and churning.





The whale made a last desperate flurry, sending the boat backing out of his mad, boiling spray. Then, the spray stopped, and the whale once more rolled out into view, opening and closing his spout hole with sharp, cracking breaths. Streams of red blood shot into the air and ran down the whale’s sides into the sea. His heart had burst.



Stubb took his pipe from his mouth, scattered the dead ashes over the water and stood thoughtfully eyeing the vast corpse he had just made.





CHAPTER 9



The Mad Prophet of Doom



Since Stubb’s whale had been killed a distance from the ship, three boats towed the prize to the Pequod.



So enormous was the mass we moved, that it was dark by the time our thirty six arms and one hundred and eighty fingers finished the job. The sight of the dead whale appeared to wound Ahab, as a sign that Moby Dick was out there, still alive.



The men fastened the whale’s enormous body along the length of our vessel, and Stubb, in a mood of good-natured excitement, ordered whale steak for his dinner.



The next day, we began the long, difficult job of cutting up the dead whale. A foot-thick blanket of blubber, or fat, encircles a whale like a rind encircles an orange. First, Starbuck and Stubb used spades to dig a hole in the blubber. Next, a huge hook was inserted, and the crew pulled away the first strip. Then, the men in the blubber room below got the strip of blubber and began coiling it.



This procedure was repeated over and over again until the task was completed. A single whale yields enough blubber to make a hundred barrels of oil that would make a lake of liquid weighing about ten tons.





Our work was interrupted by the cry, “Sail ho!” It turned out to be another whaler, the Jeroboam, out of Nantucket. When her lowered boat was heading toward us, Starbuck ordered a ladder let down for the visiting captain. But the Jeroboam’s commander, Captain Mayhew, waved his hand to indicate that they would not be boarding the Pequod.



By careful rowing, the Jeroboam’s oarsmen kept the boat alongside our ship to make conversation possible. We found that they would not come on board because of an epidemic on the Jeroboam.





Stubb thought he recognized one of the oarsmen, a small, wild-eyed young man with freckled face and a mass of yellow hair.



“That must be Gabriel!” said Stubb.



We had heard stories from other crews about this strange man who had been raised as a Shaker. The Shakers, I knew, were an American religious group who shook their bodies as part of their worship.



After signing up as an ordinary seaman, Gabriel had declared himself to be a prophet. Claiming to be the angel Gabriel, he had demanded command of the ship. When the captain threatened to land him at the first convenient port, Gabriel began to open a collection of mysterious little bottles. He uttered terrible warnings of what would happen to the crew if the captain carried out his plan.



So firm and convincing was he that the men went to the captain and told him that if Gabriel were sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain. They would not let him be punished. Thus, Gabriel had complete freedom of the ship.



When the epidemic broke out on the Jeroboam, Gabriel had even more power. He announced that the plague came about at his command and that it would en only when it pleased him. The sailors believed everything that he said.





They had heard about the White Whale and were eager to hunt him, until Gabriel warned them against it. In his wild rants, he said that Moby Dick was his Shaker God who had come down in a whale’s body.



A year later, when they encountered the whale, Chief Mate Henry Macey burned to go after him. Macey persuaded five men to man his boat. As Gabriel continued to hurl prophecies of doom, the men got one iron into the sea beast.



A broad white shadow rose from the water, and the whale, by its quick fanning motion, stunned the oarsmen. The next instant the unlucky mate was thrown bodily into the air and, making a long arc in his descent, fell into the sea some fifty yards away. Not a chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any oarsman’s head, but the mate sank to his watery death.





At this point, Captain Mayhew asked Ahab if he would hunt Moby Dick if he had the chance.



“Aye,” answered Ahab, whereupon Gabriel jumped to his feet and glared at the old seaman.



With downward-pointed finger, Gabriel passionately exclaimed, “Think of Macey, that God-insulter, dead and down there. Take care that you do not meet the same end!”



Ahab turned aside, saying that he just recalled a letter he had been given in Nantucket for one of the Jeroboam’s officers, in case the two ships met at sea. Starbuck went to look for it and soon returned with a damp, worn piece of mail. It was covered with green mold from being stored in a dark, damp locker.



Starbuck took a long pole and lightly split the end to hold the letter as it was passed down.





While Starbuck was splitting the pole, Ahab tried to puzzle out the writing on the envelope.



“Mr. Harry Macey—it is addressed in a woman’s handwriting, from the man’s wife, I’ll bet—Mr. Harry Macey, Ship Jeroboam,” Ahab read. “Why, it’s for Macey and he’s dead!”



“Keep it yourself,” cried Gabriel to Ahab, “or you will be following him to your grave.”



“Curse you!” yelled Ahab. “Captain Mayhew, stand by to receive it.”



But Gabriel snatched the letter, poked his knife through it and hurled it back up to the Pequod. It fell at Ahab’s feet.





CHAPTER 10



The Devil on Board?



After that disturbing episode, we encountered a group of right whales. The oil of these whales was inferior to oil from sperm whales, so I assumed we would not bother hunting them. I was wrong, for the cry came to lower the boats. Stubb and Flask went in pursuit of the tall spouts.



With one whale harpooned, the two boats pulled close to its body, and Stubb and Flask took turns plunging in lance for lance until the whale was dead and ready for towing.



“I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard,” said Stubb.



“Didn’t you ever hear about the charm?” asked Flask. “Once a ship has a sperm whale’s head hoisted on her starboard, and at the same time a right whale on her larboard, she will never afterward capsize.”



“Where did you hear of this charm?” asked Stubb.



“From Fedallah,” replied Flask. “The ghostly man will charm this ship to a bad end. Doesn’t that tooth that hangs out of his mouth look like it’s in the head of an evil snake, Stubb?”



“I think Fedallah is the devil in disguise. The reason that we don’t see his devil tail is because he coils it up and tucks it in his pocket.”





“You may be right. He sleeps in his boots, don’t he?” added Stubb.



“He surely does. That devil Fedallah hides his goat hooves, for they would surely give away his identity. I’ll bet he’s even made a bargain with the old man. He got the captain to trade his soul if Fedallah promised to surrender Moby Dick to him.”



“You must be joking, Stubb. How can Fedallah do that?” Flask asked.



“I don’t know, Flask, but the devil is a strange chap and a wicked one. But look sharp. We’re here. Pull ahead and let’s get this whale alongside the ship.”



The two boats pulled their load slowly. After a while, they arrived back at the Pequod.



“How old do you think Fedallah is, Stubb?” Flask asked.





To answer, Stubb pointed to the tallest pole on the Pequod.



“Do you see that mainmast there?” he questioned his audience. “Well, say that’s the figure one. Now take all the hoops on all the barrels stored on this ship. String all those hoops in a row beside that mast and pretend that they are zeroes following the one. That number wouldn’t be close to Fedallah’s age. You couldn’t find enough hoops in the world to make the zeroes.”



“But, Stubb, before you said you would like to toss him overboard. If he’s going to live forever, what good would it do?” Flask countered.



“Give him a good ducking, it would,” Stubb laughed.



“What if he decided to duck you back and drown you?” his companion asked.



“I’d like to see him try. Damn the devil, Flask! Do you suppose I’m afraid of him? If he makes a fuss, I’ll just grab into his pocket for his tail and wrench it off. Then, I’ll let him sneak off in shame.” Stubb smacked his hands together to indicate his determination.



“What will you do with the tail, Stubb?” Flask continued.



“Do with it? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home. What else?” Stubb spat out.



Flask looked at Stubb with a puzzled expression. “Do you really mean what you’ve been saying all along?” he asked.



“It doesn’t matter whether I mean or not mean. Here we are at the ship,” replied Stubb.





On the side of the ship away from the sperm whale, chains were now ready for securing the right whale.



“Didn’t I tell you so?” said Flask, pointing at the sperm whale’s head hoisted up on the Pequod’s starboard side. “I told you Fedallah would do that. You’ll soon see this one’s head hoisted up opposite the other one’s.”



In good time, what Flask said proved to be true. When the right whale’s head was suspended in place, I saw Fedallah studying it. He was comparing its wrinkles with the lines on the palm of his own hand, as if reading some secret message about the future.



Captain Ahab stood in such a way that Fedallah was completely in his shadow. If Fedallah had any shadow at all, it seemed to lengthen and mysteriously blend with Ahab’s.





CHAPTER 11



Queequeg Does It Again!



As the Pequod sailed on with the sperm whale’s head hanging by its side, a critical piece of work had to be done: removing a treasure.



The treasure is the precious oil within the forehead of the whale, contained in an enormous sac called a case. In cutting off the head of a sperm whale, the cutter has to be careful not to puncture the case, or some of the five hundred gallons of oil will be lost.



Tashtego climbed the main yardarm to the part projecting over the swinging whale’s head. Securing himself to the yardarm, he let himself down with a rope, hand over hand, until he landed on top of the whale’s head. One of the crewmen handed him a short-handled spade, but he did not begin to dig at once. Working ever so carefully, he first tapped the skin with the spade to sound its walls.



By the time he found the right spot, an iron bucket, like the kind lowered into a well for water, was attached to one end of the rope and lowered down to him. The other end stretched across the deck and was held by two men.





Tashtego rammed a pole into the bucket and used it to lower the bucket into the whale’s case. Then, at his signal, the deck hands pulled on the rope, and up came the oil-filled bucket. On deck it was emptied into a large tub and returned to Tashtego. As the whale’s case emptied, the Indian had to ram the pole harder and deeper until, after about a hundred trips, it was some twenty feet down inside the whale’s forehead.



Suddenly, Tashtego dropped headfirst into the case, and with a horrible gurgling sound disappeared.



“Man overboard!” cried Daggoo.



He put one foot into the bucket and called to be lowered from the deck to the top of the head.



A sharp cracking noise interrupted the rescue. It caused everyone to stop and stare in disbelief. One of the two huge hooks holding the head tore out. As the head swung sideways, it seemed that the other hook would give way, too.





With a thunder-boom, the enormous mass dropped into the sea. Daggoo clung to the dangling rope, but poor, buried-alive Tashtego was sinking to the bottom of the sea inside the whale’s forehead.



For one swift moment, a naked figure with a sword in hand was seen balancing on the bulwarks. The next instant, a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg would save our shipmate.



In what seemed to be a second yet an eternity, we saw an arm rise from the sea, like an arm reaching out from the grass over a grave.



“I see both of them!” cried Daggoo.



Soon after, we saw Queequeg boldly strike out with one hand, while his other hand clutched the long hair of the Indian.



Later, when Queequeg described it, the rescue drew astonished looks and gestures from the crew.



Queequeg had gone down after the sinking whale head and poked some holes near its bottom with his sword. When he reached inside of it, he grabbed Tashtego’s leg. He knew that towing Tashtego to safety would be difficult. Thinking and acting fast, he gave the leg a heavy toss. Just as he had hoped, he propelled the Indian’s body into a somersault. With the next try, he reached Tashtego’s head. With the Indian thus secured, Queequeg swam with him to the ship.



Once again, I marveled at my friend’s bravery and intelligence.





CHAPTER 12



On the Trail of the White Whale



“Ship ahoy! Hast seen the White Whale?” The call came from Ahab to a passing ship flying a British flag.



The old man stood on deck with his trumpet to his mouth. Ahab’s ivory leg was plainly visible to the captain of the Samuel Enderby. This gentleman was a burly, sunburned, fine-looking man about sixty years old. The empty right sleeve of his jacket streamed behind him.



“Hast seen the White Whale?” Ahab repeated.



“See this?” answered the captain, holding up the right sleeve of his jacket to reveal a white arm made of sperm whale bone. The arm ended in a wooden head like a hammer.



In less than a minute, Ahab’s boat was lowered for a visit to the other ship. As the old man climbed aboard, the Enderby’s captain advanced, extending his ivory arm in welcome.



Ahab crossed it with his ivory leg, calling out, “Aye, aye. Let us shake bones together—an arm and a leg. Was it the White Whale took that arm off?”





“Aye,” said the captain. “We had lowered our small boat to hunt some four or five whales. We managed to get our boat fastened to one of them. Suddenly, up from the bottom of the sea came a bouncing great whale with a milky-white head and hump.”



“It was Moby Dick!” shouted Ahab.



“He had harpoons sticking out of him near his right side,” added the captain.



“They were mine! They were my irons!” cried Ahab. “Go on! Go on!”



“He began snapping furiously at my line,” the other seaman said.



“Aye,” Ahab said knowingly. “He wanted to free himself.”



“The line caught in his teeth, and when we pulled the line, our boat slid to the top of his hump,” the captain explained. “He was the noblest and biggest whale I ever saw in my life, so I resolved to capture him despite his fury. I jumped into my mate’s boat, grabbed the nearest harpoon and let the old whale have it.”



Ahab was listening eagerly.



“Next thing I knew, I couldn’t see anything for the black foam, as his tail stuck up out of the water like a marble steeple. Suddenly, down comes the tail, cutting my boat in two. Then, he backs away through the wreck.”





“What happened next?” cried Ahab.



“I seized hold of my harpoon pole that was sticking in him. For a moment I clung to the pole. But the sea dashed me off, and the fish went down like a flash. The point of another cursed iron towing along near me caught me here at my shoulder and carried me down to Hell’s flames, or so I thought.”





Ahab stared at the point just below the captain’s shoulder where his arm ended.



“All of a sudden, thank the good Lord, the point tore its way along the flesh down the whole length of my arm. It came out at my wrist, and up I floated,” the captain related.



The ship’s doctor, who had joined us while the captain told his tale, finished the story.



“Aye. A two-foot wound it was, and it grew worse. I had to amputate the arm.”



“What became of the White Whale?” asked Ahab, for that was all that interested him.



“We saw him two more times,” answered the captain.



“Couldn’t you fasten onto him again?” Ahab asked.



“I didn’t want to try. Ain’t losing one limb enough?” the captain challenged Ahab.



The English captain glanced at Ahab’s ivory limb. “Don’t you agree that it’s best to leave that whale alone?” he asked.



“Maybe so,” said Ahab firmly. “But I’m still going after him. Which way was he heading?”



“He was heading east, I think,” the captain answered.



Then, turning to Fedallah, the captain whispered, “Has Captain Ahab lost his senses?”



Putting a finger on his lip, Fedallah slid over the Samuel Enderby’s bulwarks to take our boat’s oar. Soon, Ahab was standing in the small boat, with his men springing to their oars. The other captain called out to him but got no reply. With his back to the Enderby, Ahab stood like a statue until he was alongside the Pequod.





CHAPTER 13



Returned to Life



We were carrying a precious cargo by this time—numerous barrels of whale oil stored below deck in the hold. To protect them, our men hosed them down twice a week with sea water. This had two purposes. First, the water kept the wooden barrels tightly sealed. Second, as the sailors checked the water that was pumped off, they could see if any oil had mixed with it. In that way, they could detect any serious leakage from the barrels.



The morning after we met the Enderby, as our sailors were pumping the water off the barrels, they discovered much oil rising and mixing with the water. Starbuck rushed down to Ahab’s cabin to report it.



“The oil in the hold is leaking, sir. We’ve got to remove the casks and see where the leak is,” he reported.





Ahab, who had been studying his charts, whirled around in anger. “We’re too close to Japan,” he snapped. “We can’t waste time tinkering with a pack of old barrels.”



“But, sir,” argued Starbuck, “we’ll be wasting more oil in a day than we can replace in a year. What we’ve come twenty thousand miles to get is worth saving.”



“You’re right about that,” said Ahab, “if we get what we’ve come for.”



“I’m talking about the oil in the hold, sir,” said Starbuck calmly.



“And I’m not!” shouted Ahab. “Let it leak. Begone now, Starbuck!”



“But, sir, what will the owners say?” asked the mate.



“Let them stand on Nantucket beach and out-yell the storms. Ahab doesn’t care. The only real owner of anything is its commander. I am commander of the Pequod. Now up on deck!” the captain shouted.



“But, Captain….” pleaded Starbuck.



Ahab grabbed a loaded gun from the rack and pointed it at his chief mate.



“There is one God that is lord over this earth, and one captain that is lord over the Pequod. Get on deck!” he ordered.





With eyes flashing and cheeks on fire, Starbuck managed to calm himself. As he left the cabin, he turned and said, “You have outraged me, not insulted me, so I am not going to warn you to beware of Starbuck. You would only laugh. But, sir, let Ahab beware of Ahab. You are your own worst enemy.”



After Starbuck had gone, Ahab thoughtfully repeated what he had heard. “Let Ahab beware of Ahab. Maybe there’s something there.”



It would be difficult to guess the reason why Ahab decided to listen to Starbuck and order the barrels of whale oil to be raised and inspected. It could have been a return of his reason or the thought that it was better to keep peace between himself and his chief officer.



While working in the damp, slimy hold at hoisting out the huge barrels of oil, poor Queequeg caught a chill and developed a terrible fever. Thin and pale, he lay in his hammock wasting away. There seemed little left of him but his frame and tattoos. He was on the very edge of death’s door.





One day, Queequeg asked a strange favor. He said that in Nantucket, he had seen small dark wood canoes with lids, like the ones they had on his native isle. He had been told that all whale-men who died in Nantucket were buried in the dark canoes. This idea pleased him. It was like his people’s custom of placing a dead warrior in his canoe and letting him float away into the starry island of the sky.



When the ship’s carpenter heard the warrior’s wish, he went to Queequeg and measured him carefully. Using dark lumber that he had cut from island trees on a previous trip and stored on the Pequod, he set to work on the coffin-canoe.



When it was finished, Queequeg called for his harpoon and had the iron placed in the coffin, together with one of his boat paddles. He also requested a flask of fresh water, a bag of woody earth and a piece of sailcloth rolled up for use as a pillow. When the coffin was set up to his specifications, he had himself lifted into what would be his final resting place.



He lay there with his arms crossed over his chest and the little god Yojo above them. After a few moments of trying out the coffin, he gave a signal that he wanted to be returned to his hammock.





Happily for me, and despite all of the preparations for his death, Queequeg got better, as if he had changed his mind about dying.



He used his coffin for a sea-chest, emptying into it his canvas bag of clothes. He spent many spare hours carving strange figures and drawings on the lid, mostly copied from the twisted tattooing on his body. The tattoos had been done by a prophet who claimed to know all of the secrets of heaven and earth. Queequeg was a walking riddle with a story displayed for all to see but few to understand.





CHAPTER 14



Strange Predictions



The Pequod had on board an old blacksmith named Perth. Ahab went to see the man about a special job. The captain brought the blacksmith a pouch of nail-stubs from the shoes of racing horses and asked to have them melted down and made into an especially strong harpoon.



When Perth was about to give the sharp barb, or point, its final heating, he asked Ahab to bring the water cask to him. The cold water would temper, or harden, the barb, he told the captain.



“No, I will not use water,” said Ahab. “I want that harpoon point to be a true death weapon. It must be tempered in blood!”



Turning to the three Indians, he asked, “Tashtego, Queequeg, Daggoo, will ye give me as much blood as is needed to cover this point?”



The harpooners agreed, and three punctures were made in their skin. So, the barb of the White Whale’s harpoon was tempered .in human blood!





Later that night, Ahab awoke from a nightmare. He went up on deck where Fedallah was keeping watch and described his dream. In it, he saw himself in a hearse, a carriage for the dead.



Fedallah peered at him in the lantern’s flickering glare.



“I have told you my visions about the way that you will die. I said that you will have neither a hearse nor a coffin.”



“People who die at sea do not have hearses,” Ahab replied.



“Aye, but did I not also say that before you died on this trip, you would see two hearses on the sea?” Fedallah reminded him. “The first would not be made by human hands, and the second would be made of wood grown in America.”





“That would be a strange sight on the ocean,” said Ahab. “Tell me again what you said about yourself.”



“I said that I would go before you, to pilot you into the other world.”



“You also said that after you die, Fedallah, you will appear to me to guide me. I guess that means that I will kill Moby Dick and live to tell the story.”



“Here is another promise, old man,” said the Indian mysteriously. “Only a rope can kill you.”



“You must mean by hanging. But that can never be.” Ahab laughed mockingly. “Therefore, I am to live forever.”



As we neared the equator, where Ahab hoped to find Moby Dick, we heard unearthly cries like the wailing of ghosts coming from the rocky islands past which we were sailing. The civilized crew members said they were the cries of mermaids, and the men shuddered. The pagan harpooners sat calmly and silently. The oldest sailor on board, who was a Manxman from the Isle of Man, off the coast of England, had a different opinion.



According to the old Manxman, we were hearing the voices of newly drowned seamen.





Later on, when Flask told Ahab about the eerie sounds, the captain laughed.



“I know all about those islands,” he said. “It was just the cries of mother seals that have lost their cubs or the cries of cubs that have lost their mothers.”



Most sailors are superstitious about seals. This is true not only because the animals’ troubled tones sound human, but also because their round heads and half-intelligent faces resemble the heads and faces of humans. As a result, this was taken to be an evil omen, and the men fully expected something bad to happen.



Sure enough a sailor who had climbed the mainmast to watch for the White Whale was killed. Half-asleep, he had tumbled down into the sea. Immediately, the wooden life buoy was thrown overboard. Alas, the buoy had been in the sun too long and had dried out and shrunk. Water got into the wooden buoy, and the added weight of the water pulled it down, along with the poor sailor.





The crew felt that omen announced by the seals’ cries had been fulfilled. The old Manxman disagreed.



We needed to replace the buoy, but we had trouble finding a light-enough cask from which to make it. Queequeg pointed to his coffin, offering its fine, hard wood for our task. The idea disturbed the mates, but they told the carpenter to nail the lid on tightly and seal the seams to make them waterproof. The Pequod’s life buoy now would be a coffin.





The next day, a large ship, the Rachel, came bearing down upon us, her beams thickly clustered with men.



“Have ye seen the White Whale?” Ahab’s bellowed.



“Aye, we saw him yesterday. Have ye seen a whaleboat adrift?” came a voice from the Rachel.



Overcome by joy, Ahab did not reply and prepared to go to the Rachel. The captain of the other ship was quicker, and arrived at the Pequod before Ahab knew what had happened.



Ahab’s questions barreled out of him without pause. The other captain kept pace with his answers.



“Four of our boats went after the white hump of that whale, and the fastest one of them seemed to have fastened to him. Suddenly, both boat and whale disappeared, and we figured that the wounded whale was running with his hunters. But though we searched through the night, not the least glimpse of the missing boat was seen.”



Ahab seemed disappointed, but the captain went on.



“I’ve come on board to ask you to join us in the rescue search. We can sweep the area in parallel lines to search for my missing men.”



He hesitated a moment before adding, “You see, my own son is among them.”





Looking at the faces of his audience, the Rachel’s captain noted Ahab’s cold expression.



“For God’s sake, man, I am begging you,” he cried. “Let me hire your ship, then. I’ll gladly pay.”



“We must save the boy!” cried Stubb.



I am certain that Stubb spoke for all of us on board, and the cries of approval from the men bore this out.



The Manxman raised his hand to silence everyone.



“The boy drowned with the rest of them last night,” he said. “Didn’t we hear their spirits?”



Ahab ignored him and said to the captain: “I will not do it. We are losing time. Good-bye and God bless ye, man.”



The captain of the Rachel stood stunned for a moment.



Ahab turned to his first mate and called, “Mr. Starbuck, in three minutes’ time have these strangers off and let the ship sail as before.”





CHAPTER 15



The First Day’s Chase



A few days later, we met another ship, ironically misnamed the Delight. To Ahab’s burning question, the captain of the ship replied by pointing to the splintered wreck of a whaleboat upon her beams.



“Have ye killed him?” asked Ahab.



“The harpoon has not been made yet that can do that,’ said the captain.



“I’ve got his death right here!” yelled Ahab, holding up his newly made harpoon.



“God help you then,” cried the captain. “I’ve lost five splendid men to that cursed White Whale. You are sailing on their tomb.”



In the past, Starbuck had beseeched the Ahab to give up the mad chase for Moby Dick. Again now, he pleaded with Ahab to turn back.



“We have the cargo,” said the mate. “Why not let the men return safely to their wives and children?”



For a moment, Ahab seemed to soften. He spoke longingly of his own wife and son.



“My boy is waking now, sitting up in bed. His mother is telling him about me; that I am at sea and will return to play with him again.”



Ahab paused to look at the men who hoped that their captain would relent. Then, he declared, “There is a monster inside of me pushing me on recklessly, making me do what I should not. No, Starbuck, I will never be content until I have killed the evil Moby Dick!”





At daybreak, Ahab sniffed the sea air and pronounced, “A whale is near.”



The entire crew sensed the peculiar smell that the sperm whale gives off, and the old man rapidly changed the ship’s course.



Pointing to the gold piece that he had nailed up long ago, Ahab cried, “I will make the first sighting of the whale myself,” cried Ahab. “I must have the doubloon for sighting the whale.”



Ahab made a rope basket for himself and sat in it as two men hoisted him up to the mainmast for a full view of the sea. When he was about two-thirds of the way up, far higher than the other lookouts, he raised a cry like a sea gull: “There she blows! He has a hump like a snow hill! It is Moby Dick!”





The men on deck rushed to the rigging for a glimpse of the famous whale that they had been after for so long. Moby Dick was a mile or so ahead of them. Every roll of the sea revealed the whale’s sparkling hump and his silent spouts rising into the air.



“Did none of ye see him before?” cried Ahab to the men perched in the rigging.



“I did,” said Tashtego, “and I cried out.”



“But not at the same instant,” cried Ahab. “No, the doubloon is mine. Fate reserved it for me alone! Only I could make Moby Dick appear!”





Ahab shouted orders: “Stand by, stand by! Lower me, Mr. Starbuck. Quicker, quicker! Get the boats ready,” as he slid through the air to the deck.



Soon, all of the boats but Starbuck’s were lowered and were shooting ahead in the chase. Ahab saw only the wrinkles of the White Whale’s head and the bright bubbles dancing playfully by his side. The broken pole of a whaler’s lance projected out of the White Whale’s back. With his jaws hidden beneath the water, we might believe that he was harmless.



Suddenly, the whale slowly rose, forming a high white arch with his body. Then, he waved his tail, almost as a warning, and swiftly dipped below the surface of the whirling pool he had just left.



The three boats floated in the stillness, awaiting the return of Moby Dick. Ahab peered over the side of his boat into the depths of the sea. A white spot was rising quickly, revealing two long, crooked rows of white, glistening teeth. It was Moby Dick’s open mouth, yawning beneath Ahab’s boat, looking like a marble burial room.





Ahab gave one sidelong sweep with his steering oar to whirl the boat away from the monstrous whale. This action brought the bow around to face Moby Dick’s head. But with the evil intelligence he seemed to possess, Moby Dick caught onto the plan and ducked under and butted the boat with his head.



His long narrow jaw opened. He had the bow in his mouth and one of his teeth caught in an oarlock. The blue-white inside of his jaw was within six inches of Ahab’s head when Moby Dick began to shake the boat gently, as a cat will do with a mouse in its jaws.



Fedallah sat still with his arms crossed, unafraid, while the rest of the crew tumbled over each other to reach the stern, which was the farthest away from the whale’s open jaws.



Ahab grabbed at the jawbone with his bare hands and tried to wrench it from its grip on the boat. But the jaw slipped from his grasp, and as it slid away, it came down on the boat like a huge pair of scissors and cut the boat in two!





The men were thrown into the water while Moby Dick angrily circled the area, churning up the water in his wake as if working himself up to a more deadly attack.



The other boats hovered nearby, unharmed, still not daring to approach the tossing Ahab or the other crew members for fear of signaling the whale.



Luckily, the Pequod was able to sail between the whale and the swimming men. As Moby Dick sullenly swam off, the other boats flew to the rescue.



Half-blinded by the sea, Ahab was dragged into Stubb’s boat. He struggled to his feet, crying, “Hands off me! The blood is running through my veins again. Set the sail! Man the oars! After the whale!”





Even with the added rowing power of the crew members just rescued, the boat could not match the speed of the whale. Moby Dick sped away.



When everyone was back on board the Pequod, Ahab again spoke of the doubloon.



“That gold is mine,” he said. “I have earned it. I will let it remain here until the White Whale is dead. Whichever of ye first sights him on the day he is killed, this gold is that man’s. If on that day I should again be the one to sight Moby Dick, ten times that sum shall be divided among all of ye! Away now!”



He took his position with his leg in the cutout opening on deck and stood there until the dawn, sleeping and rousing himself.



Thus, we ended the first day of hunting the White Whale, Moby Dick.





CHAPTER 16



The Second Day’s Chase



The next day, the cry came again from the masthead, “There she blows, straight ahead!”



“Aye, aye!” cried Stubb. “I knew it. Ye can’t escape! Blow on and split your pout. The mad fiend himself is after ye! Ahab will dam off your blood, as a miller shuts his water-gate upon the stream!”



The excitement of the chase had spread to every crew member. Whatever fears or forebodings they might have felt before were gone in their growing awe of Ahab, and the thirty men worked as one man toward the old captain’s obsession.



Hardly had Ahab been hoisted to his high perch on the mast than a triumphant cry burst from thirty lungs on board. Less than a mile away, Moby Dick burst into view. Not by his calm, lazy spouting was he seen, but rather by his wondrous breaching; we marveled at the tossing of his entire body out of the water and high into the air. His breaching was Moby Dick’s act of defiance!



“There she breaches!” came the cry.





“Breach to the sun for your last time, Moby Dick!” cried Ahab. “Your time has come. My harpoon is ready. To the boats! Stand by!”



Ahab dropped from his perch and onto the deck. “Lower away!” he cried as soon as he reached his boat.



By this time, Moby Dick had turned and now headed straight for the three whaleboats.



Ahab headed straight for the White Whale’s forehead, knowing that the animal sees better from the sides than from the front. Before they could reach him, and while the three boats were still within the whale’s sight, Moby Dick churned himself into a furious speed. With open jaws and lashing tail, he rushed among the boats. Ignoring the irons darting into him from every boat, he crossed and recrossed his path, tangling all of the lines.



Caught and twisted in the mazes of lines, harpoons and lances, Moby Dick came flashing and dripping up to the bow of Ahab’s boat. There was only one thing for the old man to do: cut his line loose. The White Whale made a sudden rush among the remaining tangled lines, pulling the boats led by Stubb and Flask toward him, dashing them together and overturning them like roaring waves would do to two seashells.



After he had achieved his end, the whale dove into the sea, disappearing in a boiling whirlpool.





The two crews frantically circled in the waters, with Flask bobbing up and down like an empty bottle, twitching his legs upward to escape the dreaded jaws of the whale, and with Stubb calling out to be ladled up.



Ahab was about to head into the whirlpool to help the mates when his boat shot up from the sea. It moved as if pulled skyward by invisible wires. Moby Dick had dashed his broad forehead against the bottom of Ahab’s boat and sent it spinning over and over in the air. Finally, the boat landed upside down, and Ahab and his men struggled out from under it.





Meanwhile, the whale pushed his forehead through the ocean, trailing after him the inter-tangled lines.



The Pequod bore down to the rescue and dropped a boat for the floating crewmen, their oars and their harpoons. Ahab was picked up clinging to his boat’s broken half. Luckily, there were no fatalities, only bad cuts and sprained shoulders, wrists and ankles.



Back on the deck, Ahab half-hung on Starbuck’s shoulder. His ivory leg had been snapped off, leaving one short, sharp splinter.





“Old Ahab is untouched!” he cried. “Not even a broken bone. Here, give me that lance for a cane. Gather the men.”



When the crew appeared before him, Ahab searched the faces for Fedallah.



“Where is he?” Ahab thundered.



“He was caught among the tangles of your line. I thought I saw him being dragged under,” Stubb said.



“If my line is gone, then we have an omen of death, and it will be my death,” cried Ahab. “Quick! Collect the irons. If I have to go around this globe ten times, aye, or even dive straight through it, I will slay Moby Dick yet!”



“You will never capture him, old man,” Starbuck replied. “No more of this madness. For two days you chased him, and for two days our boats were broken to splinters. Your very leg was snatched from under you. You have been given enough warnings. Must we chase this murderous whale until he drags every last one of us to the bottom of the sea?”



“Everything that has come to pass was decreed a billion years before this ocean rolled,” cried Ahab. “Laugh, my men. ’Tis said that drowning things rise twice to the surface; then, they rise again to sink for evermore. So it will be with Moby Dick. Two days he’s floated. Tomorrow will be the third. He’ll rise once more only to spout his last.”



To himself, Ahab muttered, “Fedallah predicted that he would go before me. He said that I would see him again before I die. There’s a riddle to baffle my brain, but one that I will solve.”





CHAPTER 17



The Strange Prediction Comes True



The morning of the third day dawned fair. Once again, the lone night lookout on the masthead was relieved by crowds of daylight lookouts who dotted every mast.



With a quickly made wooden leg to replace the lost ivory one, Ahab was hoisted up the mast in his rope basket. After an hour of searching the sea, he spied the spout. Three shrieks of “There she blows!” went up from the mastheads.



“Forehead to forehead, I meet thee this third time, Moby Dick!” called Ahab. Patting the masthead lovingly, he added, “Goodbye, masthead. I’m going down. Keep a good eye on the whale while I’m gone. We’ll talk tomorrow, not tonight, when the White Whale lies down there, tied by head and tail.”



As Ahab was being lowered, the riddle came back to his thoughts. He whispered to himself, “What was it that Fedallah said? He would go before me, yet he would be seen again. I’ve sailed far from where he sank. So, Fedallah, you may have been right in your prediction for yourself, but you were wrong about Ahab!”



As Ahab prepared to climb into his boat, he turned to Starbuck and said, “Shake hands with me, man. I am old, very old.”



His eyes filling with tears, Starbuck pleaded, “Oh, my captain, do not go! A brave man weeps and begs you.”





“Lower away!” cried Ahab, thrusting his mate’s arm from him.



The boats were lowered, but they had not gone far when a signal from the masthead—a downward-pointed arm—told Ahab that the whale had gone below.



As the waves hammered on the bow of his boat, Ahab cried, “Beat on! I’m not afraid. I shall be there when Moby Dick rises. Oh, Fedallah, you were wrong. There will be no coffin and no hearse for me. Remember, only a rope can kill me! Ha! Ha!”



The waters around them swirled and swelled in broad circles. The crew heard a low rumbling sound. Everyone held their breaths as trailing ropes, harpoons, lances and, finally, the whale shot up from the sea.



Maddened by the previous day’s fresh irons in him, Moby Dick came head-on, angrily churning his tail among the boats, spilling out irons and dashing in part of their bows.





When the whale turned and shot by them again, a cry went up. Lashed to the whale’s back, amid the tangled ropes, was the half-torn body of Fedallah. His opened eyes were turned full upon old Ahab.





The harpoon dropped from the captain’s hand, and he drew in a long breath.



“So thou spoke true, Fedallah,” he whispered. “I do see thee again after thy death. Thy prediction about thy hearse was right, too. Aye, the hearse was not made by human hands. Thy hearse is Moby Dick. But where is the second hearse?”



Ahab eyed his restless crew.



“Down, men!” he cried. “The first one that tries to jump from this boat I’m in, him I will harpoon. Ye are not other men; ye are my arms and my legs, and so ye will obey me. Where’s that whale?”



Moby Dick swam away from the boats at top speed and on his way out to sea. Ahab turned to follow. He was just passing the Pequod when Starbuck called down from the deck.



“Oh, Ahab, it is not too late to turn back. Moby Dick is not after you. It is you that is madly after him!”



Still, Ahab commanded his boat to follow the whale. Glancing up at his ship, he saw Tashtego, Queequeg and Daggoo eagerly climbing to the three mastheads. He saw the oarsmen working on the two damaged boats, which had been hoisted to the Pequod’s side. As he sped by, through the portholes he caught glimpses of Stubb and Flask busy among bundles of new irons and lances.



Ahab’s oarsmen had difficulty rowing. Sharks had gathered around his boat and were biting at the oars with every dip.





“Pay them no mind,” cried Ahab. “Those teeth are only rowlocks for your oars. Pull on!”



“But, sir, at every bite the blades grow smaller and smaller,” a man said.



“They will last long enough. Pull on! Do these sharks expect to feast on the whale or old Ahab?” he roared.



When they were alongside the White Whale’s flank, the smoky mist from his spout curled around them. Ahab arched his body back and with both arms raised, he darted his fierce iron and his even fiercer curse into the hated Moby Dick.





The White Whale writhed and rolled his flank against the small boat, turning it partly over. Three crewmen were tossed into the sea, but Ahab clung to the raised side and stayed inside the boat.



As the whale darted off into the sea, Ahab yelled to the men to hold the line fastened to Moby Dick. But the line could not withstand the strain, and it snapped in the empty air!



As Moby Dick turned, he spied the black hull of the Pequod. Thinking that it was the cause of his trouble, he bore down on its oncoming prow with his jaws ready to strike.



“The whale! The ship!” cried the cringing oarsmen.



“The ship, the ship! Tilt, tilt, O sea! Let Ahab slide the last time downward on his prey. Dash on, my men! Will ye not save my ship?” shouted Ahab wildly.



On board the Pequod, men stared, babbled and prayed. Their enchanted eyes were fixed upon the whale rushing straight toward them.



“Oh, Ahab!” cried Starbuck. “Look at thy work. The whale drives toward us. My God, stand by me now. The grinning whale prepares to gulp us.”



Moby Dick’s solid white forehead smashed the ship’s starboard bow with vengeance. Men shook and fell on their faces as torrents of water began pouring through the break.





“The ship itself is the second hearse!” cried Ahab, looking up from his boat. “And its wood, American. Fedalla spoke the truth when he spoke of a hearse made from American wood.”



The whale turned from the sinking ship, dove beneath its keel and rose quietly a few yards from Ahab’s boat. He lay there, unmoving.



“I turn my body from the sun,” cried Ahab. “O, Pequod, my death-glorious ship. Must ye then perish and sink without me? Am I cut off from a captain’s pride, from going down with my ship? How lonely is my death after such a lonely life. I roll toward thee, thou all-destroying but unconquering whale. To the last, I shall fight thee. With hate, I shall spit my last breath at thee! Tow me to pieces while I chase thee, tied to thee, damned whale. Thus, I give up the spear.”





With all the power in him, Ahab hurled the harpoon. The stricken whale darted forward with lightning speed, tangling the harpoon’s line with a jerk. As Ahab stooped to untangle it, a turn of the rope caught him around the neck, and he was shot out of the boat. Before the crew knew what was happening, he was gone—killed by a rope.



For an instant, the crewmen stood as if in a trance. Then, they turned as one body from the scene.



Through the mist, they saw the Pequod fading into the sea, with the faithful harpooners still maintaining the lookouts on her high masts. A whirlpool of water seized the only remaining boat and spun it about until its crew, every oar, every lance pole and every floating chip of the Pequod was carried to the bottom of the ocean.



And the great White Whale sped away.



And the sea rolled on as it had been rolling on for five thousand years.





CHAPTER 18



I Alone Survived



The story is done, and I alone survived the wreck.



As I was being pulled around and around toward the center of the whirlpool, a black bubble shot up from its center. A coffin-shaped life buoy burst from the bubble and floated by my side. Even after death, my best friend had saved my life. It was Queequeg’s coffin-buoy.



I floated on it for an entire day and night. The sharks did me no harm as they glided by, and the savage sea hawks sailed right over me with their beaks shut tightly.



I had much to think about during those solitary seaborne hours. I thought of Ahab’s drive unto death, and of the White Whale’s answering fierceness. The memory of Queequeg’s kindness buoyed my spirits, just as his chest now held my body afloat.



On the second day, a sail drew near and picked me up. It was the wandering Rachel, still looking for her missing children. But she found only me, Ishmael, another orphan.





Collect the complete series of





Great Illustrated Classics



The series treasured by generations of readers of all ages!



Available from Waldman Publishing



1.



Around the World In 80 Days



34.



White Fang





2.



Black Beauty



35.



Ivanhoe





3.



The Call of the Wild



36.



Hunchback of Notre Dame





4.



Little Women



37.



Jungle Book





5.



Oliver Twist



38.



Secret Garden





6.



The Adventures of Tom Sawyer



39.



Wind In the Willows





7.



Treasure Island



40.



Hans Brinker





8.



Wizard of Oz



41.



Gulliver's Travels





9.



Journey to the Center of the Earth



42.



Anne of Green Gables





10.



The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde



43.



Pollyanna





11.



Swiss Family Robinson



44.



Invisible Man





12.



Heidi



45.



Legend of Sleepy Hollow





13.



Merry Adventures of Robin Hood



46.



Peter Pan





14.



Adventures of Huckleberry Finn



47.



Picture of Dorian Gray





15.



Three Musketeers



48.



Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm





16.



Moby Dick



49.



Grimm's Fairy Tales





17.



Adventures of Robinson Crusoe



50.



Alice In Wonderland





18.



20,000 Leagues Under the Sea



51.



Dracula





19.



Mutiny On the Bounty



52.



Pride and Prejudice





20.



Kidnapped



53.



War of the Worlds





21.



Great Expectations



54.



King Solomon's Mines





22.



Prince and the Pauper



55.



Snow White and Other Stories





23.



David Copperfield



56.



Beauty & the Beast and Other Stories





24.



Last of the Mohicans



57.



Cinderella and Other Stories





25.



Adventures of Sherlock Holmes



58.



Little Mermaid and Other Stories





26.



A Tale of Two Cities



59.



Sleeping Beauty and Other Stories





27.



Red Badge of Courage



60.



Aesop's Fables





28.



Count of Monte Cristo



61.



Jane Eyre





29.



Captains Courageous



62.



Phantom of the Opera





30.



Frankenstein



63.



House of the Seven Gables





31.



King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table



64.



Man In the Iron Mask





32.



Time Machine



65.



Sherlock Holmes and Hound of the Baskervilles





33.



Tales of Mystery and Terror



66.



A Little Princess





Email us at info@greatillustratedclassics.com



Visit us at http://www.greatillustratedclassics.com



Call us at (212)871-9492





